# GraphQL WG Meeting #1 Notes (August 14, 2017)

## Attendees

Name          | Organization  | Location
------------- | ------------- | -------------
Lee Byron     | Facebook      | Menlo Park, CA
Greg Hurrell  | Facebook      | Menlo Park, CA
Angel Gomez   | Facebook      | Menlo Park, CA
Johannes Schickling  | Graphcool      | Berlin, Germany
Ivan Goncharov| APIs.guru     | Lviv, Ukraine
Sashko Stubailo  | Apollo   | San Francisco, CA
Oleg Ilyenko  | Sangria | Berlin, Germany
Andi Marek    | graphql-java | Germany
Robert Zhu    | Facebook      | Boston, MA
James Baxley  | Apollo | Anderson, SC
Dan Schafer  | Facebook | Menlo Park, CA
Martijn Walraven | Apollo | Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Ian MacLeod   | Convoy        | Seattle, WA
Robert Mosolgo   | graphql-ruby | Charlottesville, VA
Thea Lamkin   | Apollo        | San Fancisco, CA 

## Agenda

* Discuss upcoming meeting schedule
	* Johannes mentioned that it would be nice to have a time shift for the next meeting because he's going to Australia. 
* [GCL: GraphQL Configuration Language](https://github.com/graphcool/gcl)
	* Notes
* [Status Update on Subscriptions error-handling](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/918)
	* Notes
* ["Verbatim string" literals and schema descriptions](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/926)
	* Notes
* [Standardizing unique IDs in the spec/tooling](https://github.com/facebook/graphql/pull/232)
	* Notes
* [Define process for the changes to the specification](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-wg/issues/9)
	* As of now there's no clearly defined process that indicates what stages PR's are at leading to confusion.
	* Sometimes the authors of PR's don't get a clear picture of what's blocking their acceptance or what the followup should be: Is it ready to be merged into the spec? Is it safe to start adding this proposed functionality to tools? Should I expect major changes to this PR? Is this important to GraphQL?
	* It was proposed that there should be a stage setup similar to the one in TC39 (Proposal/Champion/Stage)
	* Explore the possibility of having a bot that automatically pings key stakeholders if a proposal isn't commented in a certain amount of days.
	* There was a general consensus that this would be something valuable to add with the following observations:
		*	Make the stages a general criteria instead of a set of fixed rules.
		* Have a predictable timeline of when things are going to be merged so that stakeholders and users are aware. 
		* Explicitly alert everybody of when proposals are going to be merged into the spec.
* GraphQL Configuration for cross-tool usage.
	* Discussed how we could lower the barrier of entry for people attempting to build gateway services allowing for some sort of schema federation. 
* Meta: How has this meeting worked today?
	* It is good to have a set of defined goals for each agenda item.
	* Opening PRs and issues is a good place to have followup discussions to things talked about in the meetings.
